====
layout: post
title: Innertia of Time
====

Time is scarce, so scarce that we accomplish only a tiny fraction of what we
wanted to do.

There is hard limit of 24 hours a day, and half of that we must rest and refresh
our biological body, the emotion and the energy. Then a quarter of rest half on
daily errands.

Compared to what we want to do and accomplisth: to stay and play together with
family and friends; to work; to study and be proficient in a field that is
novelty to us. Time is short for those. We have to prioritize what to do.

Most often, we rely on innertia to choose what we do, i.e. what wee do that come
to us. We get up in the morning, after washing and cleaning, we pick up mobile
phone and begin to checkout "what's new" in the world, in the middle of that I
start to do a thing, but deviate from what we have planned to do the yesterday.
The innertia is strong that we spend majority of our awaken time driven by it.

If we look back into our past time, we'll though find, most probably, a lot of
time wasted on transient stuff. E.g. too much time on watching TV, being
addictive and drowning into past time beings, and more subtlely of overthinking
instead of doing.

To build a stead innertia that could drive us to accomplish more in the limited
time, we prioritize and build that to be part of innertia.

We can prioritize forwardly into the future, by looking at what do we want to
accomplish in a range of say 5 years. With that in mind, we can work out what to
accomplish in 2 years, 1 year, half a year, a quarter of that, a month, and a
week. It gives us a steady of what to do, and bonus of that a sense of control
of time and life being, albeit illusional but motivating and encouraging.

But future is uncertain, ambigous, and varies often. What we have plaaned 2
years a go, may not align well with our present life. It may become obsolete.
Thus our priorization shifts often.

Or, we can prioritize backwardly into the past. Say, a 2 years away, a 5 years
away. What we did in that past does not matter now, and might wasted a lot of
our time? And what we did and do often has flourished our life in its being and
most possibly into future as well? That we can see the "invariant" of time,
which flourish our life in limitless of time, upon which shall we spend more
time on.

Looking back into my past, there are two time that I built into my innertia
which flourished my life most. The first being physical exercises, I now do
almost daily, which I started about 5 years ago, and preserved it into present
times. I has built me muscle and a strong body that I love (instead of hate)
ever than before. The other a recent habit, I get up at 4am and do a study of
one and half an hour, then back to sleep for another one or two hours before I
go to work. It brings me a quiet of hours that I can focus on study, and in
addition a refreshed later morning I work more productively than ever before.

May the innertia be with you.
