---
layout: post
title: A Story of Nurses
date: 2012-09-03
---

Nurses were busy coming and going.

I was taking care of my Dad, and helping him recover from a serious
[Cerebral Hemorrhage][1] [^1], which almost took his life. It was a late
summer. All of the four beds in the room were occupied, families of
patients were talking aloud in corridor.

Nurses were busy, and it did not require much reasoning to see most of
them were freshly graduated (or un-graduated) to intern at the hospital.
They were not fluent at their profession yet, but they were very nice
and always kind.

Only one of the nurses I happened to see was fully fluent at the
profession, she was in middle age, and she was the head of the nurses.
Only occasionally we would see her coming, and supervising and mentoring
younger nurses on treating patient. Very rarely we'd see a smile out of
her.

Nurses were busy coming and going, but one thing did slow them down:
they were not tall enough to easily hang the drips [^2] onto the hook.
Sometimes there would be a tall man who'd help them, but the other times
they'd need find a stair to stand on so they can put it on. It was
weird, but we accepted it, it was just that.

Then it was on some day, the head of the nurses came over, and she tried
once to put a drip on, though she could not reach the hooks, either!
Getting frustrated, she grabbed a stair under her feet, then pulled the
hooks straightly down! Now everyone could reach it, and easily put drips
on, including those younger nurses.

Yes, we can pull the hooks down, but no nurses had noticed it, and no
one in the room did see it either! While the young nurses were not aware
of it since they were young and they were busy, but we were not aware
of it just because the young nurses were not, we accepted that it was
just that, we assumed the young nurses were having their best knowledge,
if they did not quest on it, it must be right, then we would not quest
it either.

A lot of times we're not aware of our own that something can be and
should be changed, while some other times we're not aware just because
everyone else is not aware. We don't quest on it, until anyone else
figure it out.

So be aware, and you may be able to make something better

_**Thanks** to Torsten Julich for reviewing the draft._


[^1]: The other name of the Cerebral Hemorrhage is Stroke.

[^2]: It seems not related, but there's
      [an interesting article on Nature][2], that talks about the safety of drips.

[1]: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0001740/
     "Stroke"
[2]: http://www.nature.com/news/doctors-debate-safety-of-starch-drips-1.11302
     "Safety of drips"
